you know what honey you are right life
is absolutely unfair and there are a few
lucky ones out there and there are a few
ones who are just meant to be the main
character of their lives but you are
none of them listen I love you but I
need you to stop with this BS right now
right here if you are not willing to
stop with this BS then please please I
don't want to waste your time get off
this video get off my channel there is
nothing I can do or say to help you if
you are not willing to do something from
yourself but honey I know you are better
than that and deep down you know that
too today I'm going to give you that big
sister talk that you never knew you
actually needed after this video you
will never look at any tough situation
and ask yourself why me instead you will
say try me and you will mean it hi guys
my name is Mika and welcome back to my
Channel today I want to talk about how
to transform why me to try me and no
that's not just a Cheesy phrase that we
hear or read on quotes that's actually a
mindset that can help you to complete
completely transform your view on
challenges and finally you will
understand that everything that happens
to you is actually something that
happens for you let's get into this I
know things feel heavy right now maybe
you're facing a breakup maybe you just
lost your job failed a test or something
else just completely knocked you over
which makes you you feel like there is
nothing you can do and all you do is
sitting here and asking why me but you
know what asking why me is not going to
help you actually it's holding you even
more back what you actually want is to
move forward to rise above whatever just
happened to you you want to get to a
place where you look back and you will
be grateful for this moment
why do we default why me why is it that
when things go wrong our first instinct
is to ask why me our brains are actually
hardwired for survival thousands of
years ago our ancestors lived in
constant danger because of wild animals
lack of resources harsh weather Etc so
our brains develop this mechanism to
constantly scan the environment for
threats but nowadays we are no longer
running away from lions hunting for our
food or facing other struggles that puts
us actually in danger of our life but
still we have this mechanism of asking
why me and looking for the negative so
when something bad happens our brain
immediately jumps to this is a threat
but you know what living in constant
threat mode it doesn't solve anything
actually living in constant threat mode
makes your life worse and makes your
body even sick we are living on a
constant stress level that is simply
unhealthy for us and it attracts more
negative situations which makes it super
difficult to find any solution so when
you're asking yourself all the time why
me why did this happen to me you are
putting yourself in a victim mindset and
your mind is not even able to find
Solutions and let's be real being in a
victim mindset will not fix your breakup
will not pay your bills will not get you
closer to your dreams it will not help
any good and I can give you one personal
example from me today so today I was
going to a clinic and I wanted to do
some facial treatments and I was
expecting a certain outcome for whatever
reason the outcome was not happening as
I wanted it to happen and even me my
first initial phrase I thought why me
why is it that every time I go to a
clinic it's not happening as I want it
to have why is that happening to me and
I started to spiral down in a mindset of
luck in a mindset of victim but you know
what happened the things went worse I
plan to do this YouTube video everything
went bad I started thinking oh now I
cannot do my YouTube video now
everything is messed up the phone was
falling the light was not good it was
just one circumstance after the other it
was coming to test me and see do you
actually want to do this video because
you are in a victim mindset you are in a
mindset of you have nothing in control
you have your mind not in check which
will not help me to get to my dreams and
at some point I had to stop I had to go
for a walk calm down and get back to my
senses and realize like I said to myself
listen girl you are in a victim mindset
right now don't do that to yourself if
you want to move forward if you want to
get something out of this situation
first of all switch that mindset because
there is a solution for everything and
it's not the end of the world that the
clinic didn't go the way I wanted I can
go there next week I can go to another
clinic it's really not the end of the
world and that was just a pretty small
simple
example but it happens to us all the
time it happens to us maybe on a weekly
basis it happens to us all the time but
the challenge is here to know how to
deal with this situation to know how to
get out of that victim mindset and to
get out of that victim mindset you have
to see that any blockage or any failure
or any challenge is actually just a part
of the process is part of success is
part of the way the path so instead of
seeing challenges as a roadblock I want
you to see them as stepping stones and
listen every single successful person
that you admire has faced some of the
biggest challenges and those challenges
could either have broken them or as they
choose to see them as a stepping stone
they overcame these challenges they
simply didn't let those challenges
Define them take for example Steve Jobs
Steve Jobs was fired from his own
company when he first built Apple in the
very beginning they fired him from his
own company that must be so
heartbreaking that must be so painful
and he could have sat there and ask
himself why me why did this happen to me
but he didn't and because he didn't we
are all having the best phones on Earth
right now we all having now the best
Technologies in the phones because he
used this challenge to grow to innovate
and he came back stronger than he was
before and today apple is one of the
most successful companies in the whole
world because one person chose try me
over why me and there are many many
other examples Oprah Winfrey Serena
Williams take whoever you want look into
their biography and you will see all
these Su really successful people have
been through some really hard challenges
but they didn't give up this is not just
some motivational stuff this is actually
scientifically proven psychologists have
studied a concept called posttrauma atic
growth the idea is that people can
actually grow stronger and more
resilient after any severe challenges
and this research found out that people
who have been through really hard
challenges and they managed to face
those challenges with the right mindset
they ended up with so many gifts they
got from this challenge a greater
self-awareness deeper Rel relationships
and a stronger sense of purpose so all
you actually need is
resilience and some studies from Harvard
University have found that resilience
which is the ability to bounce back
after setbacks is one of the most
critical factors for long-term success
and you know what resilience is not
something you are born with resilience
is something that you can train like a
normal muscle so every time you face a
challenge if small or big and you choose
to rise above that you are strengthening
your resilience you are building that
resilience muscle so how do you make
that shift how do you stop feeling like
a victim first of all shift your
perspective if today I wasn't able to
shift my perspective and went for a walk
put on some face mask and just did the
video that I plann to do then there
would not be a video then I would not be
one step closer to my dreams so when
something bad happens instead of asking
why is this happening to me ask what can
I learn from this situation for example
if you're struggling financially maybe
it's time to explore new opportunities
or maybe it's time to finally start your
own business business the second thing
you have to do is reframe the struggle
think as challenges as the gym for your
mind and your soul just like lifting
weights makes your muscles stronger
bigger and more resilient in the end
facing challenges makes you mentally
tougher every single struggle is shaping
you into that person that you are today
that you are going to be and that you
want to be the first thing you can do is
to get inspired from other stories get
inspired from people who already been
through that exact challenge or a
similar challenge what did they do how
did they face it so instead of giving up
first go and look for people who've been
through watch some videos on YouTube
either motivational videos like this one
or videos with people going through the
same struggle as you do and learn from
those people people who have experienced
something similar how they turned their
setbacks into comebacks you can simply
use their stories as proof that it's
possible and that it's so manageable to
get through your challenge and then as
always focus on your small wins I cannot
emphasize this enough you have to focus
on your small wins on your small
progress everything you have come and
done so far you you are standing where
you are today and that has to be
celebrated sometimes just don't focus on
the big picture focus on the next step
because if we keep focusing on the
bigger picture and we see it's really
far away still we forget to see the next
step we forget to see the actual small
steps that are necessary to get to that
bigger picture and sometimes a small win
a small program ress is even just
getting out of bed taking a shower
cleaning your room cleaning your home
going for a walk put on that face mask
getting out of a rat those are small
steps the small steps cannot be small
enough to not be celebrated I need you
to remember life isn't about avoiding
challenges it's about how you face them
and I talk about this in all of my
videos when you say try me instead of of
why me you are not only surviving you
are driving through life you are telling
life I'm ready bring it on and that
mindset is what separates people who are
successful from people who stay stuck so
every time you choose try me you're
taking your power back you're turning
any pain into purpose any fear into Fuel
and any challenges into opportunities
you know I read this quote somewhere
which said you can never destroy a
person who sees the opportunity even in
bad moments or even in challenges and
that's so true because if you are sad if
you broken and you still see the good
thing in that or the lesson in that you
still see that this specific moment is
getting you to where you are when to be
to where you want to be then nothing can
ever destroy you nothing is ever too
hard or too difficult for you to end
this video I want to tell you baby girl
I know it's not easy but if you want to
have a fulfilling life it's not going to
be easy and you should not look for easy
you should not look for an easy way out
I know it's temped in to just sit back
and sit in your chair or lie on your bed
and just crying around all day feeling
sorry for yourself and asking why me why
is my life so bad why why why but honey
you are so much better than this you are
powerful you are mesmerizing you just
need to see that and you have already
survived 100% of your worst days
otherwise you wouldn't sit here and
watch this video so be proud of that be
proud of yourself be proud of how far
you have come
and keep in your mind you can overcome
anything so the next time life knocks
you down don't ask why me stand up go to
the mirror look yourself in the eyes and
tell yourself try me because you have
got this honey and I promise you the
best version of yourself is waiting on
the other side she is waiting for you
she is waiting on the other side of all
these challenges and troubles thank you
so much for watching guys I'm really
grateful that you're here with me on
this journey on YouTube I hope I could
make it a bit lighter for you whatever
you're going through right now and I see
you in my next video I love you so much
and bye-bye